Reviewer #1: Thank you for the opportunity to review the article entitled "Oscillatory dynamics during sense-making of complex naturalistic symbolic and nonsymbolic mathematical demonstrations". The authors investigated the brain dynamics associated with the processing of mathematical proofs in two different formats: either nonsymbolic (geometrical shapes) or symbolic (equations and formulas). Using a portable EEG system while participants were explained the mathematical proofs by a tutor, the authors focused their frequency-based analyses on the gamma and beta waves in the frontal electrodes and parietal electrodes, respectively. They expected the symbolic format to be associated with higher power amplitude in the gamma frequency range in the frontal electrodes and the nonsymbolic format to be associated with higher power amplitude in the beta frequency range in the parietal electrodes. The authors did not find a difference in brain oscillations between the two formats, although the students reacted differently to the two types of mathematical demonstrations.
I found it valuable to show data collected in a naturalistic environment and to have generated creative material that is relevant from the perspective of (advanced) math education. However, I have major comments about the literature review, framing and study design that I explain below. I also have more minor comments and suggestions about different sections of the paper. I hope these comments would help the authors improve their article.

Major comments
1. Framing and rationale for using the experimental material. The introduction could be restructured and developed to better link the literature with the present study. In my opinion, the authors need to elaborate more on the reasons why they used mathematical demonstrations. I find the idea and the material original, and one can appreciate how the authors processed to come up with two lists of stimuli that are matched as closely as possible while keeping their pedagogical content. But the material does not really allow to examine what the authors claim about the neural processing of symbolic versus nonsymbolic magnitudes. Actually, the mathematical demonstrations included in the present study are far from the basic stimuli used to investigate the effect of numerical format (symbolic vs nonsymbolic) on the neural processing of quantities. While investigations of the neural processes involved in mathematical cognition would benefit from using more naturalistic stimuli, using mathematical demonstrations as in the present study does not really address what the authors present as their research question. Maybe the authors can present their study as an exploration of the neural processes involved in complex mathematical tasks? With this respect, the author can find a relevant study that used complex mathematical stimuli in highly skilled participants:

2. Literature review. The literature review needs to be more accurate, both in terms of the language used to introduce key concepts in the field and discussion of relevant findings. This is the case of the first section introducing the concepts of symbolic and nonsymbolic processing/skills. 
This is also the case of the second section of the introduction summarizing the neural bases of mathematical cognition. For this second section, I would suggest the authors to mention briefly the different neurocognitive systems that have been associated with mathematical activities before focusing more on the brain regions that are more "specific" or at least relevant to the research question, i.e., differences in the neural bases of symbolic and nonsymbolic processing. One of the inaccuracies that should be fixed (because it directly pertains to the goal of the study) is on page 3, line 11: "While the left intraparietal sulcus is involved in quantity estimations independent of stimulus format, the right intraparietal sulcus responds to quantities expressed in a symbolic (Arabic) format." Please note that this sentence needs to be corrected. The authors can use the meta-analysis they cite at the next sentence to mention the spatial segregation and overlap of the brain areas supporting symbolic and nosymbolic processing (Sokolowski et al., 2017). This meta-analysis suggests that some right parietal areas (and not left) are more associated with nonsymbolic processing than with symbolic processing. 

To link the author's article with other highly relevant literature, I would additionally suggest mentioning the literature below. Note that the second study (Liu et al., 2017) investigated event-related potentials and is thus especially relevant.

Bulthé, J., De Smedt, B., & Op de Beeck, H. P. (2018). Arithmetic skills correlate negatively with the overlap of symbolic and non-symbolic number representations in the brain. Cortex, 101, 306‑308. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cortex.2018.01.008

Liu, R., Schunn, C. D., Fiez, J. A., & Libertus, M. E. (2018). The integration between nonsymbolic and symbolic numbers : Evidence from an EEG study. Brain and Behavior, 8(4), e00938. https://doi.org/10.1002/brb3.938

Schwartz, F., Zhang, Y., Chang, H., Karraker, S., Kang, J. B., & Menon, V. (2021). Neural representational similarity between symbolic and non‐symbolic quantities predicts arithmetic skills in childhood but not adolescence. Developmental Science, 24(6).https://doi.org/10.1111/desc.13123


Finally, at the end of the introduction, the authors refer to Tall (1998), but it is unclear how this general quote relates to what has been introduced about symbolic and nonsymbolic number skills. It is indeed a good idea to mention literature more directly connected to educational practices (which is not always the case in the neuroscience studies of mathematical cognition). But if the authors decide to do so, I would suggest adding more specific claims and better connecting those with neuroscience findings.

3. Analysis and discussion of individual differences. In its current form, the paper overlooks the question of individual differences. The authors collected the relevant data to better characterize their population in terms of weekly exposure to mathematical content, and their familiarity as well as relative ease of difficulty completing the two tasks. From this perspective, the large variability in behavioral measures between participants (at least for proficiency with math) may actually be a strength more than a limitation. While the authors present correlational analyses among these behavioral measures, it would benefit the article to investigate the effect of behavioral variables on the brain signal associated with each task. Maybe a difference in the neural processing of symbolic versus geometrical demonstrations would emerge in participants with a higher expertise in math? Or maybe in participants who reported more understanding in both tasks? These differences in behavioral measures may also not be associated with any differences at the brain level, but readers would probably like to know the answer. As a suggestion, for some of the behavioral measures, the author can compute a "difference score" between the two formats (illustrating more familiarity with one format over the other, and how much their understanding was easier in the symbolic versus symbolic task). They can then use the difference score as a covariate in the ANOVA corresponding to each power band/electrode sites. 

4. Conclusion: The conclusion is quite long. I would suggest moving some of the content of the first paragraph in the introduction and focusing on the results and future directions.

Minor comments and suggestions
-Literature: this study may to some extent be connected with the following brain imaging study that presented sentences (or let's say, linguistic non symbolic content) about advanced mathematical concepts :
Amalric, M., & Dehaene, S. (2016). Origins of the brain networks for advanced mathematics in expert mathematicians. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 113, 4909 - 4917. 

-Material: Could you rephrase your description of the pretest page 7, line 22, to make it more explicit that symbolic and nonsymbolic demonstrations were matched as much as possible for length, complexity, … (if I understood correctly)
-Material: Could the authors provide the full list of math demonstrations as supplementary information?

-Analysis: A minor change in the structure would bring a little more clarity. Could you put the "statistical analysis" section of behavioral data (page 11, lines 45 to 52) immediately after the "preprocessing - behavioral data" section on page 10, line 41? This way, the behavioral and neurophysiological processing are clearly compartmentalized.
-Analysis: To describe the statistical analyses of EEG data, the authors write "Furthermore, we investigated the differences in beta and gamma waves by conducting two repeated measures ANOVAs with Bonferroni adjusted pairwise comparisons."
Could you write more detail here about the ANOVA you conducted for the brain data? For example, mention explicitly that a first ANOVA assessed gamma power on Fronto-central electrodes with electrode site and task format as within-subject factors; likewise for the second ANOVA on the parietal electrodes.

-Results: Could the authors provide a figure for the behavioral results? 
-Results: Was there any effect of task order? 

-Discussion/analysis: Here, the temporal window of EEG analyses corresponded to the full demonstration. This is understandable, however I am curious about what happens during a shorter temporal window, such as the conclusion of the demonstration. I am not sure whether this can apply to the current tasks, but if the authors have the opportunity to define a more specific window, I would suggest running exploratory analyses.
-Discussion: the authors write "it was unclear whether the dissociation in oscillatory dynamics extends to more natural stimuli, such as mathematical proofs." Are mathematical proofs really more natural? It seems to me that they require a very formal training. I would suggest changing the term to something like "more complex stimuli" or "rich stimuli".


Reviewer #2: In this manuscript, the authors aim to identify neural correlates of the dissociation between symbolic and non-symbolic math processing —an effect which has been reported behaviorally— in scalp EEG. They focus on specific frequency bands (beta and gamma) and over different scalp regions (frontal and parietal), based on previous less ecological studies. Although the authors didn't find the effects they hypothesized, they present an interesting ecological setup, they contextualize it with previous research, and they offer possible interpretations about why previously reported effects might vanish in their setup. I think the paper might be of interest for the community, although I have some technical concerns and some questions regarding their interpretation of the results.

Major
1. The hypothesis that symbolic and non-symbolic processing may be captured at different frequency ranges is well justified. However, I´m not I understand why the authors study gamma only in the frontocentral electrodes, and beta in the parietal ones. Could you please explain the rationale behind this choice?
2. In the Methods section, the authors report that "students were recruited […] after data cleaning and preprocessing, and removing noisy EEG signals, the final sample consisted of 28 participants […] This sample size is justified in previous work". I understand from this sentence that some participants had to be discarded from the analyses. I think the authors should be more transparent in this point. They should report in the paper the number of participants that were recruited, how many performed the task, what type of data cleaning was done, and what criterion they used to discard part of the sample.
3. In the methods it is said that participants "watched eight demonstrations", but then it says that "half of the participants started with four non-symbolic demonstrations, then their symbolic counterparts". From this last sentence it seems that they watched only 4 demonstrations. Could you please explain in more detail the structure of the task? In this regard I think Figure 1 is also confusing. What are the vertical lines within the first "Symbolic" block?
4. Regarding the structure of the task: when exactly are they asked to explain the demonstrations in their words? Right after each demonstration and before the rating? Is this information reported or used in the study? 
5. In "the triggers, which marked the beginning of…" it is unclear to me whether there are 16 triggers in total (one for each demonstration and type) or 8 triggers (one for each demonstration).
6. The power estimation procedure is unclear. "We estimated the amplitude power over the frequency ranges at the electrodes … to estimate the power values for beta and gamma waves". If I didn't miss it, I think the bands are not define. Could you please specify exactly what frequency ranges beta and gamma refer to? Also "epochs have been created according to the formats". Does this mean that power is estimated in the time window between the start and end of the demonstration? Is the rating period included in this time window or not? I think clarifying the task structure would help, see comment 2.
7. What does "missing data analysis" mean? What is "suspiciously noisy data"? Please explain the criterion that you use. Also, the authors refer to the percentage of missing data. Does this refer to the % of missing data in the whole experiment or in the demonstration block? What does "For missing data (.<10) at the item-level" mean? What is .10? What is an item in this context?
8. Table 2. Are p-values corrected for multiple comparisons?
9. P.16, l.25: "FC4 showed lower gamma power…" in what condition?
10. How do the authors interpret that the difference in gamma power is lateralized in the right hemisphere and maximized at FC4?
11. P. 17, l. 33, "POz showed lower beta power…". In Fig. 4, POz has the largest beta power.
12. Fig. 3 and 4, y axis, units missing. In Fig. 3, the error bars are not fully seen.
13. Discussion: "we found that non-symbolic demonstration were not…". The formulation is confusing: from results I get that "understanding was lower for NS version than S".
14. In the discussion the authors claim that "both S and NS demonstration provoked strong beta oscillations". No baseline correction is described anywhere in the Methods sections. Therefore, the authors cannot claim that demonstrations "provoked" anything. The beta power might be the same during the demonstrations than before. These might be simply background oscillations unrelated to the task, which threatens the author's interpretations. The analysis should be repeated with baseline-corrected power.
15. "It may be that differences… can only be found in specific time windows after stimulus onset". It might be that this effect is observed during the initial engagement with the task. Would it then be possible to repeat the analysis using the same time window (only the first 180ms) as used by Rubinsten and check for this?
16. The authors discuss why they think they could not replicate the effects found in previous studies. In part, they say this might be due to the more ecological setup they proposed. I also think the experimental setup might have too many confounding variables. The authors could discuss, based on their experience, possible alternatives in the experimental setup to overcome this limitation. For instance, one could think of a control condition, where subject watch symbols or geometric figures, that have a similar visual complexity as those appearing on the S and NS demonstrations, but that have no mathematical sense.

Minor
a) "At a research university in Switzerland". I would specify where exactly.
b) From Figure 1 I can imagine the type of demonstrations that were used, but I think it would very useful to include the 8 demonstrations in the manuscript for the sake of the replicability. They could be included in the supplementary material or even published in an open repository for other researchers to use.
c) In Neurophysiological data, the authors keep changing between tenses (has been applied, we generated…). Please be consistent in the use of the past




Here, you find the screenshots on how to find the EEG data on the ETH server, depending if you want the raw data or if 0.5-40 Hz preprocessed is okay for you.

Preprocessing

The EEG data of all the participants were first preprocessed with EEGLAB (version 2019.1; Delorme & Makeig, 2004). The average of all the EEG electrodes was set as a reference. The data were high-pass filtered at 0.5 Hz and low-pass filtered at 40 Hz. Finite impulse response (FIR) filtering, based on the firls (least square fitting of FIR coefficients) MATLAB function, was used as a filter for all the data. The data were then treated with independent component analysis (ICA) decomposition with the runica algorithm of EEGLAB (Delorme & Makeig, 2004) to detect and remove artefacts related to eye movements and blinks. ICA decomposition gives as many spatial signal source components as there are channels in the EEG data. Typically, one to four ICA components related to the eye artefacts were removed. Noisy EEG data channels for some participants were interpolated. After the interpolation, the data were split into the frequency bands of 0.5-4 Hz (delta), 4–8 Hz (theta) and 8–13 Hz (alpha) with high-pass and low-pass filtering. In addition, these frequency bands were extracted for 90 seconds of rest EEG (sitting eyes closed, sitting eyes open, standing eyes closed, standing eyes open).

















